a. How many commits have been done to the repository?

There have been 16 commits made to the repository.

Command:
git rev-list --count HEAD

b. When was the .gitignore file modified last?

The .gitignore file was last modified on September 26, 2026 at 7:37:19 PM (-0500).

Command:
git log -1 --format="%ad" -- .gitignore


c. What command(s) could you use to obtain the list of files that were in a repository on a specific date, for example 06/01/2020?

Commands:
git rev-list -1 --before="2020-06-01 23:59" HEAD
git ls-tree -r --name-only <commit-hash>

The first command finds the most recent commit that existed on or before the specified date. The second command lists all files that existed in the repository at that commit.

d. How many times was each of the files inside the src folder modified?

src/file.java was modified 1 time.

Command:
git log --name-only --pretty=format: -- src | sort | uniq -c

e. How many addition operations were involved in the creation of the file Remove.txt?

There was 1 addition operation involved in the creation of Remove.txt.

Command:
git log --follow --numstat -- Remove.txt

f. What is the difference between git log and git status?

git log displays the commit history of the repository, including information such as commit hashes, authors, dates, and commit messages.

git status displays the current state of the working directory and staging area. It shows modified files, staged files, untracked files, and the branch currently being used.

g. What does the command shortlog do?

git shortlog summarizes the commit history by author. It groups commits by contributor and displays each author's commits in a summarized format.

Command:
git shortlog

h. What command would you use to list the commits in which the file Main.java was part of the committed files?

Command:
git log -- Main.java

This command displays the commits in which Main.java was modified.

i. What command would you use to list the commits in which the file Main.java was part of the committed files, including renames and the diffs of each commit?

Command:
git log --follow -p -- Main.java

The --follow option tracks the file through renames, while -p displays the differences introduced in each commit.

j. What command would you use to list the commits whose commit message contains the word "account"?

Command:
git log --grep="account"

This command searches the commit messages for the word "account".

k. What command would you use to see the commits made by a specific person?

Command:
git log --author="Person Name"

The --author option filters the commit history so that only commits made by the specified author are displayed.

l. What command would you use to see the commits made by Lauren between 01/05/2014 and 01/14/2024?

Command:
git log --author="Lauren" --since="2014-01-05" --until="2024-01-14"

This command displays commits made by Lauren between January 5, 2014 and January 14, 2024.
